docs/supported_formats.rst, before:

*****************
Supported Formats
*****************


=================================================== ==== =====
                        Format                      Read Write
=================================================== ==== =====
AML (.csv)                                          X
AOML (.txt)                                         X
CARIS (.svp)                                        X    X
Castaway (.csv)                                     X
CSV (.csv)                                               X
Digibar Pro (.txt)                                  X
Digibar S (.csv)                                    X
ELAC (.sva)                                         X    X
Hypack (.vel)                                            X
Idronaut (.txt)                                     X
ISS (.v*, .d*, .svp)                                X
iXBlue (.txt)                                            X
Kongsberg asvp (.asvp)                              X    X
Kongsberg absorption (.abs)                              X
Rolls-Royce MVP (.asvp, .calc, .s12)                X
NCEI (.nc)                                               X
QPS (.bsvp)                                              X
OceanScience (.asc)                                 X
Sea&Sun (.tob)                                      X
SAIV (.txt)                                         X
Seabird (.cnv)                                      X
Sippican (.edf)                                     X
Sonardyne (.pro)                                    X    X
Turo (.nc)                                          X
UNB (.unb)                                          X    X
Valeport Midas/Monitor (.000)                       X
Valeport MiniSVP (.txt)                             X
=================================================== ==== =====

Commit message:

add a note to the SSM documentation about the QPS format

docs/supported_formats.rst, after:

*****************
Supported Formats
*****************


=================================================== ==== =====
                        Format                      Read Write
=================================================== ==== =====
AML (.csv)                                          X
AOML (.txt)                                         X
CARIS (.svp)                                        X    X
Castaway (.csv)                                     X
CSV (.csv)                                               X
Digibar Pro (.txt)                                  X
Digibar S (.csv)                                    X
ELAC (.sva)                                         X    X
Hypack (.vel)                                            X
Idronaut (.txt)                                     X
ISS (.v*, .d*, .svp)                                X
iXBlue (.txt)                                            X
Kongsberg asvp (.asvp)                              X    X
Kongsberg absorption (.abs)                              X
Rolls-Royce MVP (.asvp, .calc, .s12)                X
NCEI (.nc)                                               X
QPS (.bsvp) [1]_                                         X
OceanScience (.asc)                                 X
Sea&Sun (.tob)                                      X
SAIV (.txt)                                         X
Seabird (.cnv)                                      X
Sippican (.edf)                                     X
Sonardyne (.pro)                                    X    X
Turo (.nc)                                          X
UNB (.unb)                                          X    X
Valeport Midas/Monitor (.000)                       X
Valeport MiniSVP (.txt)                             X
=================================================== ==== =====

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [1] The QPS bsvp format is only supported by old versions of some QPS applications (e.g., FMGT and FMMW).
